
here are some questions:

now, by saving and XML file without verification I'm able to delete both flows and flowNodes, the problem is that I can delete them only from a process point of view. I cannot delete them from the bpmndi (the methods simply does not exist).

I assume that the model could be executed by a machine without encountering problems (in fact i can even open them in camunda), but the bpmndi creates issues when saving the file because it contains references to items that don't exist anymore.

I would suggest I create some methods to edit the bpmdi directly in XML form.
To do so I have two options:
	
	everytime I delete an element I extract the xml form of my inputModel, i edit it as an xml (only the bpmdi part), and then I reopen it again as a BpmnModelInstance.

	or

	i create an array of all the ID's of the element that I want to delete, and right before I save the XML I call a method that deletes all of them.
	This solution seems more 'elegant' but it's also less general (what If I want to do something different rather than just deleting stuff? But maybe I will never need it).


Another major doubt that I have is:  "what if I create a new element from zero, instead of deleting it? The BPMDI information for that element would never exist."
(I haven't tried it yet, but I have tried "deleting" the information of an element from the bpmndi of an xml)
If I were to create a bpmndi block for it from scratch, I could try to deduce that element's ideal position from it's neighbors.


-

nome del plugin di eclipse

-

Intermediate presentation:

 	Spiegare com'è XML
Spiegare che c'è Process e BMPNDI e che cos'è uno e l'altro.
Spiegare che Camunda lavora solo con il process e quindi aprendo un file su camunda viewer vedi ancora gli elementi che sono stati cancellati.

Spiega che per eliminare la cosa dovrei eliminare il BPMDI manualmente usando XML.
Potrei quindi fare una lista di tutti gli elementi da cancellare con i loro ID e poi dopo aver salvato il file come XML lo riapro e cancello le cose dal BPMNDI e dopo lo risalvo.

Oppure potrei estendere tutti i metodi di Camunda per fare quello che voglio io.

Ma visto che camunda non fa niente di troppo complicato, tanto vale che agisco direttamente io sull'XML.